221102

Aired November 02, 2022 - 04:00   ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. Welcome to CNN 10. I'm Coy. Happy to be right here with you on this wonderful Wednesday. We're halfway through the week, so let's lock in and keep aiming to be a little better today than we were yesterday. Now, in previous episodes, we've discussed the ongoing war that started when Russia invaded Ukraine in February of this year. This week, Russia launched a new round of missiles against Ukraine. The more than 50 missiles largely targeted critical facilities in Kyiv, the capital city in Ukraine. This is part of Russia's increasing attacks against critical infrastructure across the country.  This week, 80 percent of residents in Kyiv were left without water and as of Monday, many homes and businesses were without electricity as well. One of the missile strikes hit an energy facility that powered 350 apartments in the capital, impacting many people who lost power. The Ukrainian government urged residents to stock up on water from shops and pumping stations after the attack. Following the attacks, emergency services in Ukraine were attempting to restore power and stabilize the situation as soon as possible, especially before the start of winter. Leaders in Kyiv were also calling on assistance from the European Union and NATO as well as several governments. By yesterday, Ukraine had already made agreements with 12 countries to obtain nearly 1,000 units of power equipment, including generators. And this isn't the first time Ukrainian citizens haven't had access to water. Survivors of the siege in the city of Mariupol at the start of the war had to collect rain water and melted snow for drinking Russian. Russian President Vladimir Putin said that the recent onslaught of missiles are a response to an attack on Russia's fleet in Crimea on Saturday, which he blamed on Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over):  Life just got harder in Kyiv. Monday morning, 80 percent of the capital's water off following a new barrage of Russian airstrikes, spigots not use since the war began a lifeline again, but not unexpected.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Everyone in Kyiv right now and they choose to stay here. They are like ready for this.  ROBERTSON:  Will it make you leave the city?  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, I will stay here. I didn't leave it since the war begins. So, why have to do it now?  ROBERTSON:  Despite the long lines in some parts of the city, patience aplenty.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I'm standing with my friends in one hour, maybe two- hour, maybe three, maybe no water after 20 minutes. But I'll go back.  ROBERTSON:  Scenes like this are becoming increasingly normal across Ukraine. Government officials say that there were ten different regions targeted Monday, 18 different sites.  Among them, a hydroelectric power plant, Ukraine's biggest in Zaporizhzhia. Another power gen site in central Ukraine. Kharkiv subway in the east still by strikes on vital infrastructure there.  And despite intercepts, 44 across the country, according to the government, groups of missiles getting through, at least three according to this witness near Kyiv's hydroelectric power plant.  A missile flew over our house and went to the balcony, and saw the second missile and a drone, she says, both were flying in the direction of the power plant. It's so scary when you see it.  Three weeks of targeting Ukraine's electricity network is pushing the power grid towards a tipping point, no doubt more of this to come.  Nic Robertson, Kyiv, Ukraine. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: What is considered the most expensive object ever built? The Burj Khalifa, the Oakland Bay Bridge, the International Space Station, or the London Crossrail? With estimates over $100 billion, the football field size International Space Station is by far the most expensive project ever constructed. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  French astronaut Thomas Pesquet spent six months aboard the International Space Station last year. He says that experience made him realize we live in an oasis in the cosmos that we need to protect. He also says they've discovered technology that could lead to us eating the packaging that our food comes in. For today's "Call to Earth" segment, we're heading 248 miles high to get a view of the earth very few people get to see. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) THOMAS PESQUET, ASTRONAUT AND FAO GOODWILL AMBASSADOR:  When you look at the Earth from the space station, it's absolutely magical. It glows in blue, and it's the most beautiful scenery you could possibly imagine.  When you take a step back and you see the arsenic's entirety, you understand it it's just an oasis in the cosmos. All around, there's nothing. No life. It's blackness emptiness and there's this blue bowl with everything we need to sustain human life and life in general which is absolutely fragile. It makes you want to cherish the Earth. I'm Thomas Pesquet, an astronaut for the European Space Agency. I'm coming back from my second mission to space, all onboard the International Space Station, so permanent laboratory that orbits the Earth.  Just like us on board of space station, the Earth is a spaceship and we are its crew. It flies around the sun. It has limited resources. It has some protection means but they can be overcome. You don't control the amount of resources that you have on board but you have to manage them. And what you can control, the way you care about the spaceship, the way you maintain it because you want the flight to be as long and peaceful as possible.  You can see a lot of the consequences of human activities from space. Some of them climate change, some of them are just plain old pollution.  My first mission was in 2016 launch, 2017 landing. My second mission was five years later, 2021, and I could see a difference. The most visible effect is glaciers retreating, year after year mission after mission. You know, the ice caps melting in the poles. I'm an ambassador for the food and agricultural organization of the United Nations. But during my mission on the space station, we had a lot of research done on plants because space is a harsh environment for plants. By studying plants in the environment of space, then we can study how they can resist to a drought or water scarcity, and then we can feed all those results to research being made on Earth and to create some more resistant crops, the crops that will resist to climate change.  We've also worked a lot on all our packaging just like on Earth, we're trying to limit the production the use of plastic the production of waste and so we came up with edible packaging, which is just a such a fantastic and simple concept. We need foam to protect everything from shocks during launch into space, so what we did is we turned that foam into food it's like gingerbread. Now, our packaging is at the same time our source of food. It reduces the need to send cargo up. It reduces the production of trash. It's brilliant. So, hopefully, that technology can also transfer to packaging on the ground and then we can reduce our environmental footprint every time we go buy something in the supermarket.  If we set ourselves on the right path, there's nothing we cannot do. We built that unbelievable facility in space. We're using it every day, peaceful cooperation between countries that we're not always friends. So if we can transfer that model to the way we deal with the environment I think we'll get there. I'm optimistic for the future. If we can make a space station fly, then we can save the planet. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  For today's 10 out of 10, we have a story creating a big buzz. It turns out bumblebees may be more complex than we thought. U.K. scientists designed an experiment that gave 45 bumblebees the choice between a clear path to food or a player filled with wooden balls.  Well, honey, the result was something to beehold. The bees repeatedly chose to roll the balls around, sometimes over 100 times. Researchers believe that this show's bees found playtime rewarding. Now, that's intere-sting. Shout out time now. Hive-five to Greeley, Nebraska, Central Valley Public Schools, rise up.  And I'll leave you with this today: if there's something you want out there, think about the goal, speak about the goal, believe you'll reach it and you just might achieve it.  We'll see you tomorrow. I'm Coy and this is CNN 10. END221031

Aired October 31, 2022 - 04:00   ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey you! Hope you had a happy hollow weekend and you're ready to trick go treat yourself later today. Can't wait to see your costumes. I've already been loving some of the bald dude costumes I've seen like the one from math teacher Allison Frank (ph) from Philly and some of you have some serious vest game, we could be vesties.  I'm Coy. This is CNN. Let's start this week off strong.  The midterms are one week away. On November 8th, Americans will cast their votes for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local offices. They're called midterm elections remember because they happen two years into a U.S. president's four-year term. Every two years, all 435 seats in the House of Representatives is up for election, while about a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for grabs.  Many states have aligned their elections on this schedule which means governors as well as various state officials, local positions and government initiatives are on the ballot. The main question on everyone's mind is, will Democrats maintain control of the Congress for the remainder of this presidential term? Or will Republicans take control of one or both chambers of Congress?  Then, what about those races for governor and state legislatures? We'll hear now from CNN national politics reporter Eva McKend on how the results of this year's election could impact the next two years of politics in America, (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER:  President Joe Biden needs Democrats to win in the 2022 midterms, if he wants to move his policy agenda forward. Yet the president's party almost always loses seats in midterm elections. The party in the White House has lost seats in Congress in every midterm except for four in the last 150 years.  And poll suggests that voters are disappointed in what President Biden and the Democratic majority have accomplished so far, which doesn't bode well for their 2022 chances. SEN. MITCH MCCONELL (R-KY):  And it's my hope that the '22 election will be a referendum on the performance of the current administration.  MCKEND:  So what would Republican power in Congress mean? First, Biden's political agenda will be fully halted. He's already had a hard time getting much of his policy priorities passed. Democrats have a narrow majority in both the Senate and House if they lose even a few seats in 2022, Republicans will take back power and stop Biden in his tracks. Of course, Republicans would then find it difficult to get anything passed and signed by President Biden. This all leads to gridlock on Capitol Hill. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: Which of these social media sites has the lowest character limit per post? Instagram, Twitter, Facebook or TikTok? The current limit for a tweet is 280 characters, far lower than the others. But changes may soon be coming for the Twitterverse. (END VIDEO CLIP) (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Today is the day many people thought they would never see Elon Musk taking control of Twitter. Of course, the question now is what is he going to do with the company, with the platform?  He's expressed his frustration with how many fake accounts and bots are on the platform, so we could see him doing something with that. But he's also expressed discomfort about permanently banning people from the platform, knows most notably of course that former U.S. President Donald Trump who was kicked off at the platform for good we thought after the January attack on the Capitol.  Musk saying though that he will not be making these decisions anytime soon. He is going to set up a council he says of experts who are going to advise on these types of decisions around speech, around what they should do about banning people or bringing them back.  Within the company itself, speaking to people who work there today, a lot of worry, a lot of concern about what is going to happen with the company, but also what is going to happen with their jobs and their livelihoods. Donie O'Sullivan, CNN, Dallas. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Up next, we're headed to outer space. NASA's InSight lander, a robotic spacecraft designed to land on the surface of Mars, has completed its mission to map the planet and its interior. The latest mission found information that changes how experts view the formation of planets and their relationship to Earth. CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher is on the story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER:  Touchdown confirmed! (CHEERS) KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Three years after NASA's InSight lander touched down on Mars, it has delivered the information that it was sent to collect from millions of miles away.  BRUCE BANERDT, PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR, MARS INSIGHT:  This is definitely a data that we've been waiting decades for. FISHER:  For the first time, scientists have mapped the interior of another rocky planet. They discovered a thinner than expected crust. And the biggest surprise a larger lighter and more liquid core than earlier estimates.  For comparison, Earth's core is much more dense. Meaning the Martian core is at least partially made of different elements. Why is this important? Why should Earthlings care about the composition of Mars? BANERDT:  It allows us to take our theories of the formation of rocky planets in general and the Earth in particular and understand how our planet formed out of the initial solar nebula, how it changed from just kind of a ball of kind of gray, indistinguishable meteoritic material to the diverse planet we have today with oceans and continents. FISHER:  On Earth, there are earthquakes. But on Mars, they are called Mars-quakes. The InSight lander is cutting edge seismometer spent two years measuring them and tracking those seismic waves as they rippled through the Red Planet, while NASA's other active robot is focused on the surface. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Halloween is upon us, and according to the National Retail Federation, Americans are ghouling all out, spending a record amount of mummy on Halloween this year -- whether it's buying candy, costumes, decorations or pumpkins to carve.  Let's break down the economics of this year's Halloween. Spending is projected to hit a record $10.6 billion in 2022, and participation in Halloween related activities will resume to pre-pandemic levels, with nearly 70 percent of consumers planning to celebrate. That's up from 65 percent last year and even, the 68 percent who celebrated pre-  pandemic in 2019. But no matter how you spend your Halloween, one thing we can all agree upon is that not all Halloween candy is created equal, according to Candy Commerce. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I can't process that this is even candy. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I've never seen these before either. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You also might heave. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That's actually disgusting. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That is not great.  CARLY SCHILDHAUS, SPOKESPERSON, NATIONAL CONFECTIONERS ASSOCIATION:  What you may love might not be somebody else's favorite. But there's something for everybody to enjoy.  SUBTITLE:  According a National Retail Fed. Survey, Halloween participation is expected to be back to pre-pandemic levels.  SCHILDHAUS:  Each year, we do over four billion dollars in sales and this year, we are projecting about a five percent increase in chocolate and candy sales. For Halloween this year, the top three treats are chocolate, candy corn, which I know is controversial, and gummy candy. SUBTITLE:  Not all candies are loved equally.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I don't know why people hate on me so much. They're really not that bad.  SCHILDHAUS:  Whether you love it or you, let's say, don't love it, candy corn is an iconic part of the Halloween season. MARCIA MOGELONSKY, DIRECTOR OF INSIGHT, FOOD & DRINK, MINTEL:  It is a direct link to the past because it is a nostalgia, reminder of, you know, everybody always got candy corn and we always hated it but we always ate it. Everybody can talk about candy corn. It doesn't matter where you are, you can start a conversation. Candy corn has become one of those commonalities. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It might just be a good memory and not a good reality. SCHILDHAUS:  And people feel that really strong nostalgic tie to different treats. So there are plenty of treats out there that again are really innovative and exciting, but people also have that strong emotional connection to maybe something they enjoyed as a child, or at a -- at a particularly exciting or challenging time in their life. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Circus peanuts seemed like a mistake. I'm surprised they're still around. MOGELONSKY:  You give what you remember from the past. You give what you can afford. To buy whatever looks familiar to them. Oh, yeah, I remember those Smarties, I'll take those. There are people who cannot afford to give out Haribo and full-sized Hershey bars to their community. It just doesn't work that way, but they want to have something to give and this is what they can afford. We'll always have candy. There is something about candy and Americans that is just inseparable. You just have to have our security blanket of sweets. (END VIDEOTAPE) WIRE:  Today's story getting a 10 out of 10. An Iowa dad going all out to freak out unsuspecting trick-or-treaters. Greg Dietzenbach created the Monstdoor. The seemingly normal door with a wreath comes to life with digitized eyes and furry arms claws and gnarly teeth. The fuzzy purple people eater was created by using a high def TV for the eyes, cutting out door panels and using broomsticks for the arms, and a foam wreath with puppet-like strings for the mouth and teeth.  And the result, a perfect 10 out of 10 on the frickle-meter (ph). All right. My sweet like candy, voodoo-ful people, I'm witching you a fantastic Halloween.  Big shout out now to Rapid City, South Dakota South Middle School, rise up. Thanks to everyone for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel for your shout-outs. Be safe lovely people. Take care of yourself and each other tonight.  Enjoy your day and your can-day. I'm Coy and this is CNN 10. END